It-Bank

Version 1.0
April 1, 2008

An online repository for annotated instances of the pronoun "it"

If you use this data in your work, please cite as:

Shane Bergsma, Dekang Lin and Randy Goebel, Distributional
Identification of Non-Referential Pronouns, In ACL-HLT 2008, Columbus,
Ohio, June 16-18, 2008.

Contents:

1) ACLData/
2) DevData/
3) Format of It-Bank Data



1) ACLData/

- contains the instances used for the evaluation in the paper (Along
with it-instances from the MUC7 coreference corpus, available from the
LDC).

Source:

ACLData comes from 1020 instances in a collection of Science News
articles (from 1995-2000), downloaded from the Science News website,
plus 709 instances in the WSJ portion of the DARPA TIPSTER Project
(Harman, 1992), and 279 instances in the English portion of the
Europarl Corpus (Koehn, 2005).  Please see the paper for full citation
details.



2) DevData/

- contains it-instances taken from previously annotated coreference
corpora at the University of Alberta.  Used as development data for
the system described in the paper.

Source: 

ancTrain.rand and ancTest.rand come from the American National Corpus.
The train/test split corresponds to the split used for the full set of
pronoun annotations done on this corpus.  For further details on these
annotations please see: http://www.cs.ualberta.ca/~bergsma/CorefTags/
and the paper: Shane Bergsma, Automatic Acquisition of Gender
Information for Anaphora Resolution, In Canadian AI 2005, (LNCS,3501,
© Springer Verlag), Victoria, BC, May 9-11, 2005, pages 342-353.

aqtDev.rand and aqtTest.rand were taken pronoun resolutions made on
the AQUAINT corpus.  The full set of these resolutions have not yet
been made available to the public.  For more details on the original
use of these annotations, please see: Colin Cherry and Shane Bergsma,
An Expectation Maximization Approach to Pronoun Resolution, In CoNLL
2005, Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 29-30, 2005, pages 88-95.



3) Format of It-Bank Data

Each example is a tab-separated triple: a label, a position, and a sentence:

1	1	 It is not expected to cause him to miss any games .
1	10	 More frequent droughts would make water even scarcer than it is today .
0	7	 She adds , however , that it 's impossible to be certain the cells were motor neurons .

The sentence is a space-separated list of tokens corresponding to one
sentence.  All sentences were automatically tokenized and segmented
using Dekang Lin's Language and Text Analysis Tools
(D. Lin. 2001. LaTaT: Language and Text Analysis Tools. In Proceedings
of Human Language Technology Conference 2001.  pp.222--227. 2001).
Note that this automatic processing does occasionally introduce errors
in tokenization or segmentation.

The second component of the triple, the position, identifies which
token in the sentence corresponds to the label.  The position always
corresponds to an "it" token.  The position number is needed because
sentences may have more than one occurrence of the word it.

